For the arms I think we can begin with a cylinder again.
We can maybe press shift a and bring in a cylinder.
I need to change this to 16 sides I think and let's go ahead and create a triangle band for the caps
again and then I'd like to rotate this around the x axis so I'll press our x 9 0 and spin that and let's
shrink it down and kind of put it in place and see how big we need this.
I'll just bring it over here and if we take a look at the reference image here it looks like it's kind
of hard to tell but it looks like we might be able to place it about like this alternate in the x axis.
Gamma press are an X and then just rotate or move the mouse and maybe get it about like this.
It's kind of hard to tell but I think that might be about the proper placement for this we can of course
move it around as we need to.
But now let's hit the period key to zoom in and once we've zoomed into this object we also tumble around
it as well.
I'll tab into edit mode hit three key for base mode and let's press the C key again and click and drag
to select those.
Think I'll just delete these because we're not going to need these right now I'll hit X and I'll choose
to delete faces and we go.
Now if I hit the two key to go to edge mode I'll press Alt and click an edge and that will select that
whole edge loop.
Now let's go to the side view with the three key and let's try and extrude this out and bring it up
to where the shoulders should be.
But before I do that I mean move this down a bit and turn it some because I feel like trying to get
it up to the center of the torso from there may have been kind of a challenge.
All right.
So what let's do is here in the side view I'm in the right or the graphic view I'm just gonna hit E
and then click and I'll hit g to grab that and move this back a bit and then I'm gonna hit R and rotate
it and then G and kind of spin it around like this.
So I'm just trying to turn it so that we can point the next extrusion up toward the shoulder here I'll
hit E and then click and hit G and move this up like this and hit R and turn it like this all right.
So now we've got that kind of 3 edge bend here so I want to show you what I mean.
This edge here this edge right here and this edge right here those three edges for that bend all right.
So now if I take this edge I'm going to extrude it up but I'm not going to go all the way I'm going
to hit e and just bring it up right about to here.
Let's say and now we need to get this curved part of the shoulder and I think the way to do that is
going to be a sphere.
So what I'd like to do is create a sphere.
Cut it in half and then connect it up with the upper arm.
Now when I'm in object mode I can right click and go to the snap menu here.
But when I'm in edit mode the right click brings up the context menu or whatever.
Select mode where m.
So we're in Edge mode right now.
So the edge context menu comes up so to move the cursor while we're on edge mode we can press shift
s and now we can choose cursor to selected right there.
And now I'll tab back into object mode and let's create a sphere up here.
I'll press shift a and I'll go to mesh you v sphere.
Now we need to change the number of segments from 32 to 16 right here and that will match the number
of edges of our cylinder.
So let's scale this down a bit.
And then what I'll do is go ahead and maybe just go to the well I'll go to the side view here with three
key and I'll hit the Z key to go to wireframe and let's tab in the edit mode I'll press the three key
to go to face select and then what we can do is go ahead and select all the faces on the bottom here.
So I'll click the select tool and then I'll click and drag and select all of these hit X and delete
bases.
There we go.
All right.
So now let's shrink this down a bit.
And let's also move this up to where it should be.
Maybe right up in here let's say.
OK so now what we need to do is connect these up.
Let's go ahead and join these together I'll select the arm and shift select the shoulder object here
and then I'll press control J.
And that will join those all into one object then I'll tab and edit mode and now we can connect these
up what we could do is let me just select these bases here I'm going to also click on an edge between
two of the faces and then I'll hit X and delete bases and then back to edge mode all click this edge
all shift click this edge so we select them both.
And now let's bridge this so we could come up here to the edge menu here and choose bridge edge loops.
We can also press control e and we get the same menu we can select bridge edge loops here and then we
go and that connects those two edges together.
Now I feel like this cylinder kind of should be turned a bit.
So let's under this control Zee and I'll select this top part with the L key I'm going to d select everything
and hit the L key and that selects all linked components of that particular piece.
So let's just take this and rotate it and kind of point it at the elbow there and let's also select
this edge and maybe I'll shrink it down just a bit as well and move it kind of get it more in line and
just feel like we were kind of off when we connected those together.
All right.
So now with this edge selected I'll press all shift and click that edge and let's try it again.
I'll press control e and bridge edge loops all right.
So I think that's a little bit better.
I mean select this edge and or scale it out a bit maybe move it some I can come over here to the move
tool and kind of click and drag and move that maybe I can select this edge now kind of turn it move
it.
So now we can come in and begin rearranging the edges to get it just the way we want it.
Maybe I'll turn that a bit here.
Something like that.
So just trying to get that general shape.
All right.
We should take a look at it from the front and view as well and it looks to me like we've got a couple
of these edges that are a little too wide or a little too narrow.
So if I pressed S and X maybe I could bring this in a bit and maybe select this edge and press X and
X and bring it out just a bit.
So you may need to do just a little bit of tweaking here and also now I may actually take this part
right here and it feels like I could shrink that down just a little bit like this.
All right let's go with this for now and see how it works.
Right now the pivot point of this object is right here in the the what was the center of the cylinder
I could move this or change this if I needed to to move and rotate the arm.
So if I tabbed into edit mode and all clicked say this edge let me press the two key to go to edge mode
and then there we go.
Now I could press shift s move the cursor to the selected and then I could set the origin of the object
to that 3d cursor.
Now we're already pretty close to being there but I'll go ahead and do that.
I can right click and edit mode and go to set origin and set the origin of the object to the 3d cursor.
And there we go.
OK.
So now what I can do is maybe move this in like this and then tilt it out.
I'll just push the arc key and kind of tilt it out like this.
Now let's go ahead and smooth this the way we have the other objects are selected and come up here to
object and shade smooth or as we've done before we can come over here and right click it and choose
shade smooth here as well.
There we go.
OK.
So now let's take a look at that object data panel right down here.
We'll go to the normals section right here.
Turn on auto smooth and let's go and drag it all the way down and then drag it back up and see what
we can get.
At what point it kind of smooths out or is the way we want it to Yeah it looks like above 30 degrees
you can see it kind of sharpen up at the elbow there.
But then if I drag it up say above 35 degrees that kind of smooths out a bit.
And once again we are creating this for a game character so we're trying to keep it fairly low poly
here.
I think I'll tilt it again in the y here.
Let me push r and y and tilted in the Y and I'm gonna push it in again like this and see how that works
I'm gonna get the cursor back to the center of the grid by pressing shift C and that frames everything
up and puts the cursor back at the grid and I think we're doing pretty well here.
I'm going to select the torso now and hit the period key and frame that up so it spins around the torso.
Yeah I think that works pretty well.
I may want to add an edge in here.
In between each of these so it curves a little bit more.
But for now I think I'm gonna leave it as is.
And in the next video what let's do is work on creating the hand.
And then after that what we'll do is we'll mirror these over and see how it looks.
So that's coming up next.